---
title: consent form
layout: base
---

# University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill Consent to Participate in a Research Study

**Adult Participants Social Behavioral Form**

____



**IRB Study \#****12-0310**

**Consent Form Version Date:** 2/22/2012**

**Title of Study:**Potential for Personalization in Scientific
Information Retrieval

**Principal Investigator:** Dr. Jaime Arguello

**UNC-Chapel Hill Department:**School of Information and Library
Science

**UNC-Chapel Hill Phone number:**(919) 962-2926

**Email Address:**jarguell@email.unc.edu

**Co-Investigators:** Dr. Bradley Hemminger, Jason Priem

**Study Contact telephone number:**(919) 962-2926

**Study Contact email:**jarguell@email.unc.edu

____



##What are some general things you should know about research studies?

You are being asked to take part in a research study. To join the
study is voluntary. You may refuse to join, or you may withdraw
your consent to be in the study, for any reason, without penalty.



Research studies are designed to obtain new knowledge. This new
information may help people in the future. You may not receive any
direct benefit from being in the research study. There also may be
risks to being in research studies.



Details about this study are discussed below. It is important that
you understand this information so that you can make an informed
choice about being in this research study.



You will be asked to review and sign this on-line form. You should
ask the researchers named above, or staff members who may assist
them, any questions you have about this study at any time.



##What is the purpose of this study?

The purpose of this research study is to collect qualitative data
on how you manage your personal library of research publications
using Mendeley, to collect qualitative data on how you search for
research publications using on-line search engines, and to
determine whether information derived from your Mendeley library
can be used to personalize search results.



You are being asked to be in the study because you are an active
Mendeley user (you regularly update and maintain your Mendeley
library) and you regularly search for research publications using
on-line search engines. To receive full compensation for the study,
you must complete at least 100 searches for scholarly publications
during the next 4 weeks. This corresponds to an average of 3.5
academic searches per day. You may conduct more academic searches
on some days and less (or none) on other days.



##Are there any reasons you should not be in this study?

You should not be in this study if younger than 18 years of age,
not an active Mendeley user, or you do not expect to conduct at
least 100 academic searches in the next 4 weeks.



##How many people will take part in this study?

If you decide to be in this study, you will be one of approximately
40 people in this study.



##How long will your part in this study last?

The study will run for a period of 5 weeks. Most of your active
involvement will happen at the start and end of the study
(described below).



##What will happen if you take part in the study?

At the beginning of the study, you will be asked to (1) install a
Mozilla Firefox plugin that will record your search interactions
when you tell it to and (2) grant us read access to your Mendeley
library, which does not require sharing your username and password.
You will be provided with instructions and guidance on how to do
both.



After installing the plugin, your browser window will display a
horizontal toolbar with a “start” and “stop” button. The “start”
button tells the plugin to start recording your search interactions
(pages visited, queries issued, URLs clicked). The “stop” button
tells the plugin to stop recording your search interactions. For
the next four weeks, you will be asked to record searches. You will
be asked to click the “start” button before you start an academic
search session and click the “stop” button after you finish. A
bright red strip above your browser window will indicate that the
plugin is currently recording. The red strip is designed to not be
easily ignored so that you always know when the plugin in
recording. The plugin writes all recorded information to two files
that reside on your own computer. At the end of the four-week
period, we will ask you to send us a copy of these two files using
a secure connection.



Also during this four-week period, we will periodically collect
information from your Mendeley library. This will be done remotely
using the Mendeley API and does not require your active
participation.



At the end of the four-week period, you will be asked to complete
an on-line exit questionnaire and, in addition, you may also be
selected to complete an exit interview. Each will take about 45
minutes to complete. The exit questionnaire will ask general
information about your use of Mendeley and your scholarly search
behavior. If selected, the exit interview will ask about specific
actions taken on your Mendeley library or during specific searches
that you recorded.



##What are the possible benefits from being in this study?

Research is designed to benefit society by gaining new knowledge.
You may not benefit personally from being in this research study.





##What are the possible risks or discomforts involved from being in this study?

There are no anticipated risks associated with participation in
this study. However, you should report any unforeseen problems to
the researcher.



##How will your privacy be protected?

Subject privacy and confidentiality will be maintained in several
ways. All data produced by participants will be transferred using a
secure connection and will be stored in a secure,
password-protected computer. Participants will be identified using
a random number and all data produced by a participant will be
linked to this number rather than to the participants name or
email. All data collected from participants will be destroyed after
the data analysis is complete. Finally, participants will not be
identified in any report or publication about this study.



Although every effort will be made to keep research records
private, there may be times when federal or state law requires the
disclosure of such records, including personal information. This is
very unlikely, but if disclosure is ever required, UNC-Chapel Hill
will take steps allowable by law to protect the privacy of personal
information. In some cases, your information in this research study
could be reviewed by representatives of the University, research
sponsors, or government agencies for purposes such as quality
control or safety.



If you are selected to participate in the exit interview, we would
like to audio record your responses for transcription and analysis.
The recording will be kept until analysis is complete and then it
will be destroyed. Until that time, the recording will be stored in
a secure place.  Your name will not be stored with the recording or
the transcript.    
Check the line that best matches your choice:  
\_\_\_\_\_ OK to record me during the study  
\_\_\_\_\_ Not OK to record me during the study



##Will you receive anything for being in this study?

You will be receiving $50.00 USD for taking part in this study.  
If you decide to withdraw from the study for any reason, or if you
are unable to record at least 100 academic searches, you will
receive a partial compensation prorated based on the number of
searches you completed out of 100.



##Will it cost you anything to be in this study?

There will be no costs for being in the study





##What if you have questions about this study?

You have the right to ask, and have answered, any questions you may
have about this research. If you have questions, complaints,
concerns, or if a research-related injury occurs, you should
contact the researchers listed on the first page of this form.







##What if you have questions about your rights as a research participant?

All research on human volunteers is reviewed by a committee that
works to protect your rights and welfare. If you have questions or
concerns about your rights as a research subject, or if you would
like to obtain information or offer input, you may contact the
Institutional Review Board at 919-966-3113 or by email to
IRB\_subjects@unc.edu.



______



**Title of Study:**Potential for Personalization in Scientific
Information Retrieval



**Principal Investigator:** Dr. Jaime Arguello



**Participant’s Agreement:**



If you have read the information provided above, asked all the
questions you have at this time, and voluntarily agree to participate
in this research study, please <a href="mailto:priem@email.unc.edu?subject=[schol search q2] I agree to participate in the study">send us an email stating this.</a>






