---
title: Overview and signup
layout: base
---

# Transforming scholarly search with Mendeley

## Overview

We’re doing a study on scholarly search behaviors, and whether we
can use Mendeley libraries to productively personalize academic
search results. We’re looking for participants to help us by
installing a Firefox plugin to record their scholarly searches for
a month, letting us gather information from their Mendeley library
use, and doing a short exit interview. We’re paying participants
$50 USD.

## Study Goals

Collect qualitative data on how researchers organize their research
publications using personal information management tools;

Collect qualitative data on how users search for research
publications using on-line search engines; and 

Investigate whether information derived from a researcher’s
personal library of research publications can be used to
personalize search engine results.

## Requirements

Must use Mendeley to store your scholarly reference collection.

Must do at least 100 scholarly searches for the month of the
study.

## Procedure

Depending on which search engine you typically use to do your
scholarly searching, you’ll be assigned to one of two experimental
groups: A and B.

If assigned to group A, you will install a Firefox browser that
will record all your scholarly searches for one month and then you
will submit the logs to the investigators. The plugin records URLs,
clicks, and scrolls.
*We do not want to record non-scholarly searches or browsing.*It’s
private, and it doesn’t relate to our study. We expect you to turn
on plugin recording right before you do a scholarly search, and off
as soon as you’re done. It sounds hard to remember, but we’ve found
participants get used to it pretty quickly.

If you typically use Google Scholar to do your scholarly searches,
you will be assigned to group B. You will install a similar plugin
as group A, except that the plugin for group B automatically
records your interactions when you are in the Google Scholar domain
([http://scholar.google.com/](http://scholar.google.com/)) and
stops recording when you are not.

The plugin logs are stored on your local computer, and we can’t see
them until you email them to us at the end of your month.
Everything is stored in two simple text files; if you accidentally
record a search you didn’t want to, you can easily delete it from
the logs before you submit them. You can also inspect the text
files before you submit them, to make sure you’re not sending us
anything you don’t want to; we encourage you to do this.

We’ll analyze the search logs, and also download all the
information from your Mendeley library. To do this you’ll need to
authorize us through Mendeley, but you won’t need to give us your
password.  We ask a subset of the participants to also take part in
an interview at the end of the study, to help us learn more about
your searching and the possible utility of our search
personalization approach.  

## Oversight

Oversight for this study is provided by the UNC Chapel Hill
Institutional Review Board for Social and Behavioral Research.

If you have any comments or questions, please contact Dr. Jaime
Arguello
([jarguell@email.unc.edu](mailto:jarguell@email.unc.edu)).

## Sign-Up

To participate, just follow the steps on the [study instructions page.](http://jasonpriem.github.com/schol-search-study/instructions.html).



